There was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews.
This one came to him in the night.
Rabbi, we know that you have come from God as a teacher.
For no one can perform these signs that you perform unless God is with him.
Most truly I say to you, unless anyone is born again,
he cannot see the kingdom of God.
How can a man be born when he is old?
He cannot enter into the womb of his mother the second time he'd be born.
Kenny.
Most truly I say to you,
unless anyone is born from water and spirit,
he cannot enter into the kingdom of God.
What has been born from the flesh is flesh
and what has been born from the spirit is spirit.
Do not be amazed because I told you you people must be born again.
The wind blows where it wants to and you hear the sound of it.
But you do not know where it comes from and where it is going.
So it is with everyone who has been born from the spirit.
How can these things be?
Are you a teacher of Israel and yet do not know these things?
Most truly I say to you what we know we speak
and what we have seen we bear witness to,
but you do not receive the witness we give.
If I have told you earthly things and you still do not believe,
how will you believe if I tell you heavenly things?
Moreover, no man has ascended into heaven
that the one who descended from heaven, the son of man.
And just as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness,
so the son of man must be lifted up so that everyone,
believing in him, they have everlasting life.
For God loved the world so much
that He gave His only begotten Son,
so that everyone exercising faith in Him
might not be destroyed,
but have everlasting life.
For God did not send His Son into the world for Him to judge the world.
But for the world to be saved through Him
whoever exercises faith in Him is not to be judged
whoever does not exercise faith
has been judged already
because He has not exercised faith in the name
of the only begotten Son of God.
Now this is the basis for judgment
that the light has come into the world,
but men have loved the darkness rather than the light
for their works were wicked,
for whoever practices vile things hates the light
and does not come to the light
so that His works may not be reproved
but who ever does what is true comes to the light
so that His works may be made manifest
as having been done in harmony with God.
After this, Jesus and His disciples
went into the Judean countryside
and there He spent some time with them and was baptising.
But John too was baptising in Inan,
in his Salem
because there was a great quantity of water there
and people kept coming and were being baptised.
For John had not yet been thrown into prison
now that his disciples of John had a dispute
with a Jude concerning purification.
Rabbi, the man who was with you across the Jordan
about whom you bore witness.
See, this one is baptising
and all are going to him.
A man could not receive a single thing
unless it has been given him from heaven.
You yourselves bear me witness that I said
I am not the Christ.
But I have been sent ahead of that one.
Whoever has the bride is the bridegroom
but the friend of the bridegroom
when he stands and hears him
as a great deal of joy
on account of the voice of the bridegroom.
So my joy has been made complete.
That one must keep on increasing
but I must keep on decreasing.
The one who comes from above
is over all others.
The one who is from the earth
is from the earth
and speaks of things of the earth.
The one who comes from heaven
is over all others.
He bears witness to what he has seen and heard
but no man accepts his witness.
Whoever has accepted his witness
has put his seal to it
that God is true
for the one whom God sent
speaks the sayings of God
for he does not give the spirit sparingly.
The Father loves the Son
and has given all things into his hand.
The one who exercises faith in the Son
has everlasting life.
The one who disobeys the Son will not see life
but the wrath of God remains upon him.
Herod himself had sent out
and arrested John
behind him in prison
account of Herodius,
the wife of Philip his brother
because he had married her.
For John had been saying to Herod
it is not lawful for you
to have your brother's wife
so Herodius was nursing a grudge against him
and wanted to kill him
but she could not
for Herod was in fear of John
knowing him to be a righteous and holy man
and he was keeping him safe.
After hearing him
he was at a great loss as to what to do
yet he continued to hear him gladly.
When the Lord became aware
that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making
and baptizing more disciples than John
although Jesus himself did no baptizing
but his disciples did.
He left Judea
and departed again for Galilee
but it was necessary for him to go through a Samaria.
So he came to a city of Samaria called
Psycar
near the field that Jacob had given to his son Joseph.
In fact, Jacob's well was there.
Now, Jesus tired out as he was from the journey
was sitting at the well.
It was about the sixth hour.
A woman of Samaria came to draw water.
Give me a drink.
For his disciples had gone off into the city to buy food.
How is it that you just bite into June?
Ask me for a drink, even though I am a Samaritan woman.
For Jews have no dealings with Samaritans.
If you had known of the free gift of God
and who it is who says to you give me a drink
you would have asked him
and he would have given you living water.
So you do not even have a bucket for drawing water
and the well is tea.
From what source then do you have this living water?
You were not greater than our father, Jacob,
who gave us the world and who together with his sons
and his cattle drank out of it, I am.
Everyone drinking from this water will get thirsty again.
Whoever drinks from the water that I will give him
will never get thirsty at all.
But the water that I will give him
will become in him a spring of water
bubbling up to impart everlasting life.
So give me this water.
So that I may neither thirst
nor keep coming over to this place to draw water.
Go call your husband and come to this place.
I do not have a husband.
You are right in saying I do not have a husband.
For you have had five husbands
and the man you now have
is not your husband.
This you have said truthfully.
Sir, I see that you are a prophet.
Our forefathers worshipped on this mountain.
But you people say that in Jerusalem
is a place where people must worship.
Believe me, woman, the hour is coming.
But neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem
will you worship the Father.
You worship what you do not know.
We worship what we know
because salvation begins with the Jews.
Nevertheless, the hour is coming
and it is now
when the true worshipers
will worship the Father with spirit and truth.
For indeed the Father is looking for ones
like these to worship him.
God is a spirit
and those worshipping him must worship with spirit and truth.
I know that Messiah is coming
who was called Christ.
Whenever that one comes,
you will declare all things to us openly.
I am He, the one speaking to you.
Just then His disciples arrived.
And they were surprised
because He was speaking with a woman.
Of course, no one said,
what are you looking for?
Or, why are you talking to her?
So the woman left her water jar
and went off into the city
and told the people,
come and see
a man who told me everything I did.
Could this not perhaps be the Christ?
They left the city
and began coming to Him.
Meanwhile, the disciples were urging Him.
Rabbi, eat.
I have food to eat
that you do not know about.
No one brought too many things to eat, did he?
My food is to do the will of Him
who sent me
and to finish His work.
Do you not say that there are yet four months
before the harvest comes?
Look, I say to you,
lift up your eyes
and view the fields
that they are white for harvesting.
Already, the Reaper is receiving wages
and gathering fruit
for everlasting life.
So that's the soar
and the Reaper
may rejoice together.
For in this respect,
the saying is true.
One is the soar
and another the Reaper.
I sent you
to reap what you did not labor on.
Others have labored
and you have entered into the benefit of their labor.
Many of the Samaritans
from that city
put faith in Him
because of the word of the woman
who bore witness,
saying,
He told me all the things I did.
So, when the Samaritans came to Him,
they asked Him to stay with them
and He stayed there two days
as a result,
many more believed
because of what He said
and they said to the woman,
we no longer believe
just because of what you said.
For we have heard for ourselves
and we know that this man
really is the Savior of the world.
After the two days,
He left there for Galilee.
Jesus Himself, however,
bore witness
that a prophet has no honor
in his own homeland.
So, when He arrived in Galilee,
the Galileeans welcomed Him
because they had seen
all the things He did in Jerusalem
at the festival.
For they too had gone to the festival.
The appointed time
has been fulfilled
and the kingdom of God
has drawn near,
repent,
and have faith in the good news.
Then He came again to Cana of Galilee,
where He had turned the water into wine.
Now, there was a royal official,
whose son was sick in Capernaum.
When this man heard
that Jesus had come out of Judea
into Galilee,
He went to Him
and asked Him to come down
and heal His Son,
but He was at the point of dying.
Unless you people see signs and wonders,
you'll never believe.
God, come down before my young child dies.
Go your way.
Your son lives.
The man believed the word that Jesus spoke to Him,
and He left.
But while He was on His way down,
His slaves met Him
to say that His boy was alive.
So He asked them at what hour He got better?
The people left Him yesterday
at the seventh hour.
The father then knew
that it was in the very hour
that Jesus had said to Him
your son lives.
So He and His whole household believed
that this was the second sign Jesus performed
when He came from Judea into Galilee.
He then went to Nazareth
where He had been brought up.
And according to His custom on the Sabbath day,
He entered the synagogue
and stood up to read.
So the scroll of the prophet Isaiah
was handed to Him,
and He opened the scroll
and found the place where it was written.
His spirit is upon me,
because He anointed me to declare good news to the poor.
He sent me to proclaim liberty
to the captives
and a recovery of sight
to the blind,
to send the crushed ones away free,
to preach Jehovah's acceptable year.
With that, He rolled up the scroll,
handed it back to the attendant
and sat down.
And the eyes of all in the synagogue
were intently fixed on Him.
Today,
this scripture that you just heard,
is fulfilled.
And they all began to give favorable witness about Him
and to be amazed
at the gracious words coming out of His mouth.
This is a son of Joseph.
Is it not?
No doubt you will apply this saying to me.
Physician, cure yourself.
Do also hear in your home territory
the things we have heard were done in Copernia.
Truly, I tell you that no prophet
has accepted in his home territory.
For instance,
I tell you in truth,
there were many widows in Israel
in the days of Elijah,
when heaven was shut up for three years
and six months.
And a great famine came on all the land.
Yet Elijah was sent to none of those women,
but only to a widow in Zarifeth,
the land of Sidon.
Also,
there were many lepers in Israel
in the time of Elijah the prophet.
Yet not one of them was cleansed.
Only name in the Syrian.
Now all those hearing these things in the synagogue
became filled with anger.
And they rose up and rushed Him outside the city.
They led Him to the brow of the mountain
on which their city had been built.
In order to throw Him down headlong,
but He went right through their midst
and continued on His way.
After leaving Nazareth,
He came and took up residence in Copernia.
Beside the sea,
in the districts of Zebulin and Naftalai,
so as to fulfill what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet,
who said,
O land of Zebulin and land of Naftalai,
along the road of the sea,
on the other side of the Jordan,
Galilee of the nations,
the people sitting in darkness,
saw a great light.
And as for those sitting in a region of Deathly Shadow,
light rose on them.
On one occasion,
when the crowd was pressing in on Him
and listening to the word of God,
He was standing by the lake of Ganesirat,
and He saw two boats docked at the lakeside.
But the fishermen had got out of them,
and were washing off their nets,
and going aboard one of the boats, which were simons.
He asked Him to pull away a bit from land.
Then He sat down and He began teaching the crowds from the boat.
When He stopped speaking, He said to Simon,
Pull out to where it is deep,
and let down your nets for a catch.
Instructor, we toiled all night,
and caught nothing that had to your word.
I will lower the nets.
And they did this, they caught a great number of fish.
In fact, their nets began ripping apart,
so they motioned to their heart as in the other boat
to come and assist them,
and they came and filled both boats,
so that bees began to sink.
Seeing this, Simon Peter fell down
at the knees of Jesus.
Depart from me, Lord,
because I am a sinful man.
For both He and those with Him
were overwhelmed with astonishment
at the catch of fish they had taken,
and the same was true of both James and John.
Zebedee's sons,
who were partners with Simon.
But Jesus said to Simon,
Stop being afraid.
From now on, you will be catching men alive.
So they brought the boats back to land,
and abandoned everything,
and followed Him.
Come after me,
and I'll make you fishes of men.